---
layout: about
title: About
desc: Find out more about myself
job-desc: Interdisciplinary Designer
permalink: /about/
avatar: "https://fbcdn-profile-a.akamaihd.net/hprofile-ak-xpf1/v/t1.0-1/c0.38.320.320/p320x320/10154519_10203391891626507_1625131595_n.jpg?oh=45e0ff57e47b2ddda4bd450e5c7290aa&oe=54E71676&__gda__=1427567812_bf16b38e211db516adc185421a318e78"
cover-image: "../../assets/dist/general/img/bg_home-large.jpg"
---

Hello! My name is Stefan Reinprecht and I’m an interdisciplinary  designer from Graz, Austria. Creating things with value is what I care about. Getting the essence out of things is what I am good at. I specialise in Cinematography and Motion Design as well as Webdesign and Development. Capturing stunning moments is what I am passionate about. To craft user-friendly Interfaces is my goal. I want to add value to everything I do. I want to create value with everything I do. Telling stories with Images is my passion. Finding the essence of things is what I do best. I strive to create valuable products and services. At the intersection between Design & Development is where I work best. Working in small interdisciplinary teams is my strength. I’m bridging the gap between Design & Development. Valuable Experience from various design fields have broadened my skill-set. The first time I set foot into the design-field was when I started skateboarding as a teenager. We made logos for our crew and filmed our tricks. The experiences I’ve made while filming, that’s where my love for the moving image comes from. Since then   pretty much always held a camera in my hands. I started with Webdesign and Development back in 2009 while I was at Business School with Information Technology. From then on I’ve always strived to create beautiful interfaces and craft quality code because there was a desperate need for it. From business school I’ve also taken some valuable skills in team work, economics and  business etiquette as well as delegating tasks and being productive. In 2012 I started studying Information Design at FH Joanneum in Graz. Where I not only have the opportunity to sharpen my skills with moving images and code but also to dive into other fields of design to round of my skill set as a designer. I hope you like my portfolio. Make sure to leave a message or follow me on some of the social media channels.