---
layout: project
title:  "Rebranding a team scheduling Webapp"
client: "Tenato"
collaborators: Lukas Kollmann
date:   2014-11-22 09:51:00
permalink: /work/tenato
type: Branding, UI/UX
cover-image: "https://unsplash.imgix.net/45/HWijjF7RwOPGEJ1nb4Zb_IMG_3773.jpg?q=75&fm=jpg&s=38ebbe5922dfb2114877fe9170478b2f"
---

In mid 2013 one of my closest friends Lukas Kollmann and I were asked to do the branding of a Webapp that helps creating schedules for your staff/team. Initially Lukas should work as a one-man-band, but he couldn’t do the heavy lifting on his own, so he asked me for help. It was definitely better to work as team on this project as it turned out to be way more extensive than we thought.

## What does the App do?

The key concept is that the staff or team members could actively take part in the process of creating the schedule via the App. They are able to select their shifts, plan their days-off work and exchange with their colleagues. Basically the schedule should build itself and save a lot of time that goes into creating those plans manually.

## Finding a name

The name of the app was teamghost but the founders thought that this needed to be reworked before we start with the branding. So our first job was to find a new name that suits the concept and on which we later could build our design upon. We came up with „tenato“ which stands for team-navigation-tool.

<— from team ghost to tenato image —!>

## Connecting the dots

Connectivity was one of the key things and we tried to reflect that with our logo design. As you can see from the evolution of the logo we started with single nodes acting as team members.

<— iterations of tenato logo —!>

Throughout the iterations you can see that in the end all nodes are connected, which represents the core functionality of the Webapp: To connect with team members and actively help to create an optimal schedule for the whole team.

## Finding a visual language

The next steps were color and typography. We definitely needed something modern and flexible. To complement the dynamic nature of the App, we picked Brandon Grotesque as our primary font. With its clean and minimal look, it was a good fit right from the start.

<— type showcase —!>

Combined with our main signal color, a tourquoise, standing for communication, we’ve found a perfect match. Neutral greys were added to round of the color palette of the App.

## Rethinking the Interface  

While working on the Corporate Design we quickly realized that the current look of the App was desperately in need of an major overhaul. Lukas and I suggested to expand our branding onto the digital side and redesign the Interface. Needless to say that in 2014 print and digital go hand in hand. Especially if you are a new start-up you need to have a complete design system.

## There’s an App for that

So we took the challenge and started with some research. We pointed out two major competitors internationally but found no direct competitors in Austria except for a few from Germany offering to german-speaking countries. This led us to the conclusion that there’s a certain market that needs to be penetrated and we got a rough overview of what lies ahead of us.

It also gave us a lot of breathing room for design decisions as there were basically no preconceptions of how a scheduling interface should look like. We gained a lot of valuable data for  a long-term strategy concerning feature implementation and development of the app.

After analyzing the data we started reworking the current state of the User Interface of the App. Coincidentally we also had a UI-Design Course at University, therefore we proposed to make a seminar work based on the findings we made while working on the App. Together with our professor Mr. Konrad Baumann and the founder of tenato Jürgen Math, we could quickly point out some general flaws within the App. Mr. Baumann was of great help during this initial phase and vice-versa he was happy that we could bring a real-world project into his course.

## Creating the first prototypes

We designed a first prototype that should be implemented quickly to fix some usability and UX issues and another one that should act as major redesign. Most of the problems were structure based and therefore unnecessary time consuming. We improved the UX by removing some hierarchical elements and were able to make the scheduling process a lot quicker. 

<— screenshots of our prototypes —>

But sometimes it’s better not to rush a decision. After a summer break we met up together to discuss the future of the app. Not only are we going to serve the app on the desktop but also ship a optimized version for mobile devices. Which is key, because it adds to the connectivity and the flexibility of the system (and we both get a chance to design another UI. Yay!).

## Work in progress

Luckily we could conduct some real world usability tests with prospective clients. The tests were done with the current version of the app, before our first redesign iteration, to see if there are any fundamental flaws we have not spotted yet. And indeed we found some very valuable data especially concerning the flexibility of the app depending on the type of company using it.

Currently we are building an inventory of interface elements to be used on both the desktop and the mobile version as well as rethinking the structure of the app. This step is crucial to make the app as coherent as possible while maintaining a universal look and feel.

Right now we are working on the next iteration of the tenato interface. So be sure to check back for some updates of the project. 