---
layout: project
title:  "Developing a retina-ready Website"
client: "Merkscha"
date:   2014-11-16 16:07:00
permalink: /work/merkscha
type: Web-Development
cover-image: "https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3876/14337024425_d5d35406bb_k.jpg"
---

For this project my role was to develop a Website for a local wood company in the course of a rebranding which was done by Studio Bruch. In the past I’ve developed a few Websites for Josef Heigl who is co-founder of Studio Bruch so it was an easy decision when he asked me to help him out on this particular project.

As I already mentioned my part in this project was to develop the Website designed by Studio Bruch. The Site was developed with Wordpress as a CMS, to make it easy for the client to change the content. Wordpress is my go-to choice for a CMS for its easy interface and incredible extensions. To feed the content into the theme I’ve used the incredibly Advanced Custom Fields plugin which caters the needs of almost anything you ever want to create with wordpress. 

The design used large images and image carousels throughout the page and the content was set in very distinctive Typefaces. Which is Studio Bruchs great strength. Furthermore a lot of signets and icons where used to illustrate the production process of the company.

So to make the site as good looking as possible on the web we decided to make the site retina-ready. Which is a very future-friendly decision if you look at recent developments with HiDPI displays. 

The images are swapped based on the pixel density of the device that wants to open the website. To further improve the look on retina devices I implemented SVG Icons for the signets and logos with a fallback for Internet Explorer using Modernizr. 

As a base theme we’ve used the Foundation Framework by ZURB which offers an amazing toolkit to lay out your website in almost no time. It really did the heavy lifting on the structure site including the image swapping and the carousel. The fonts were served via Fontdeck. 

The hero-image is randomly loaded from a selection of images done by the client. At any time the client can change any text or image on the page due to the easy nature of wordpress. 